Hospitals are granting technology companies access to patients’ detailed medical data, taking on a role of information broker in the $3 trillion health-care sector.   via  

Microsoft now plans to have 100% renewable energy running its facilities by 2025 and completely electrify its campus vehicle fleet by 2030. This goes a step beyond promises made by some of its high-profile Silicon Valley competitors.  via 

2019 was the second-warmest year on record and had the warmest June since 1880. July was tied for the warmest. Great graphic by   

 Thx u we need more insights to help find solutions. Humanity in medicine is what it’s all about. Empathy for both docs and patients leads to better outcomes and a healthier population.

 Thank you! Appreciate the kind feedback. I plan on continuing to cover this topic, especially as healthcare continues to evolve

“People say, oh, Colorado, we’re so healthy. Not so much.” More middle-aged people are dying from heart disease and strokes, even in unlikely places. My story w/ .  via 

Physician burnout. Many attribute it to administrative tasks and work hours. Read on to see who cites EMRs. ⁦⁩ ⁦⁩  

My first piece for  also involved my first long-distance reporting trip (to Texas!) and my first interview at 5,000 feet. 

It's a story about aoudads, and whether they're ecological troublemakers, refugees, or—impossibly—both at the same time.


The U.S cancer death rate dropped by 2.2% from 2016-2017 — the largest one-year drop ever recorded. Doctors point to new therapies that they say are improving outcomes for patients. My latest:  

This is your brain on cuteness: Researchers explore whether flipping through photos of adorable animals can actually make you more productive. It's science.  via 

Google has developed a system that can match or outperform radiologists at detecting breast cancer. But doctors still beat the machines in some cases,  reports  via 

E-cigarette maker Juul is trying to snuff out a habit from its early days: use of its own product at headquarters 

Chicago health authorities are trying to track down people who might have been exposed to measles after an infected traveler visited O’Hare airport,  reports.  via 

Evidence mounts that vitamin E oil is the culprit behind the deadly outbreak of vaping-related lung injuries,  reports 

A recent breast-implant recall has created a difficult decision for women — especially those who have already survived cancer. “There’s no way I’m keeping these in my body … I’ve already been through the wringer.” (via  for )  

A special thanks to all of the women that were willing to share their stories with me for this piece  

Hospitalizations for EVALI cases are on the decline, and doctors and industry analysts cite wider awareness, changing vaping habits, and a potential shift in the illicit market 

. posts new guidelines for genetic screening for risk of breast, ovarian and pancreatic cancers:   Adds a guide for people of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry and high-penetrance genes beyond BRCA1 and 2 mutations.

Trump's helicopter flew over a few hundred vaping enthusiasts protesting a ban on flavored e-cigarettes he had promised, and that was it. By  &amp;  with  &amp; 
 

Excited for this week's Covering Climate Change workshop , with  and . We're bringing reporters together to explore new ways to tell the story of this climate emergency - and its solutions - to the communities they serve:  

Marijuana and Vaping: Shadowy Past, Dangerous Present 

The growth of new EVALI cases of seemed to be slowing down, but new numbers reveal the biggest jump we’ve seen in recent weeks:  

Would you vape vitamins? 

where  and I report on some of the unintended consequences of vaping bans — including a potential return to combustable cigarettes 

New study finds bias in medical technology: An algorithm that helps steer extra medical help to hospital patients favored healthier white patients over sicker black patients, ⁦⁩ and ⁦⁩ report 

Doctors raise concerns about recommendations for the use of blood thinners postpartum that came from a group that gets funding from drugmakers, ⁦⁩ reports 

How regulators failed to keep up with e-cigarettes and vaping, which  and  write opened the door for surging youth use 

  Thanks, Stacey! Great meeting you, too!

Earlier this year, I went to Puerto Rico for my first reporting trip and it was one of the most rewarding experiences in my career so far. Plz check out the story (for ) and see how darn cute these hawk babies are! 

Felt good to dust off my mediocre chemistry knowledge today   

Your doctor is more likely to be a Democrat, and that says a lot about America’s political divisions 

Thread from  on the behind the scenes reporting that went into our measles graphic! 

With measles hitting the U.S. hard in 2019, pockets of low vaccination leave local communities vulnerable.

We've compiled a database of those schools so you can compare the immunization rate at schools all across the U.S. w/  



The U.S.--just barely--has likely held onto its status of eliminating domestic transmission of measles,  and  report 

 Thanks!!

#TheJournal Episode 45. The doctors at Wisconsin's  Children's hospital solved a medical mystery and sounded the alarm on a public health crisis.  explains.  

Health authorities are continuing to urge people to stop using electronic cigarettes and other vaping devices as the number of vaping-related lung illnesses rises to 805  via 

The average cost of employer health coverage passed $20,000 for a family plan this year, a Kaiser survey found, as health care resonates politically  via 

Doctors in Wisconsin suspected that 5 cases of severe respiratory illnesses might be linked to vaping. Now, there are more than 500 cases across the country. My latest:  

 Thank you!

How public health officials and hospitals connected the dots and recognized the breadth of the recent vaping-related lung injuries. Once authorities began to issue warnings about a new lung illness, doctors saw its shadow everywhere.   

As concerns about the health hazards of vaping mount, a market for illicit cannabis-vaping products is thriving on big tech platforms like Facebook and Amazon. ⁦⁩  

Have you heard the unsettling news?? There are about 3 billion fewer birds in North America today than there were 50 years ago. I wrote about it for  


.'s count of people affected by vaping-related illness is up to 530, across 38 states and one U.S. territory,  and  report 

Netflix is losing streaming rights to "Friends" but—yada yada yada—now it is getting rights to "Seinfeld" 

SCOOP: Juul is debating internally whether to lobby the Trump administration to carve out menthol e-cigarettes from its flavor ban. 

Come join us! I started as a intern in January and loved it so much that I never left (or at least they haven’t kicked me out yet) 

After five months, New York City ends emergency order on measles outbreak   via 

FDA sends another warning to a #stemcell company marketing umbilical cord products, finding "unvalidated manufacturing processes" and "inadequate aseptic processes"
AND that they need FDA approval to be marketed.
 


Adults of a wide range of ages should be screened for hepatitis C infections, says draft recommendation from the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force that could greatly expand the number of people treated for the disease — my latest for ⁦⁩  

Pediatricians and public health officials are worried vaccination rates among children of #Immigrants will fall as new and stricter rules come into effect this autumn. 

Dozens of fires have scorched large swaths of the Amazon ran forest. And now Brazil's government is facing a global backlash. 

Read more:  

Lyme is on the rise. There are vaccines for dogs. Why not humans? And why will it take years, at a minimum, until one is available? Surprise! Anti-vaccine fearmongering has a lot to do with it. Great  piece by 's  : 

TODAY’S THE DAY!!! Go grab a  to see my big  on the front page of the science section!! ✨✨✨✨ 

My first piece on the new beat (doctors, medical practice and patient care): Doctors, students and other groups want medical schools to teach the health impact of climate change, and a small but growing number are adding it   via 

Another important piece from Emiliano Rodríguez Mega for  . More than 10% of HIV-positive adults around the world have developed resistance against two drugs that constitute the backbone of #HIV treatment. 

New data confirms a puzzling increase in colorectal cancer among younger adults. "They’ll carry that risk with them, so that they have a much higher risk than their parents when they reach their 50s and 60s." 

The drug epidemic is becoming increasingly urban, with death rates from overdoses in cities overtaking those of rural areas for the first time in years, according to CDC.   via  

      Coverage  and  nicely frame the advance and the caveats

by  
 by   

The Apollo 11 astronauts were met back on Earth with celebration and the fear of space germs. Find out what else happened during the days of the moon mission with our entire On This Day package:  

Advanced imaging techniques found some differences in the structure and connections of the brains of U.S. diplomats who reported neurological problems while working in Cuba. But the mystery surrounding the symptoms remains,  reports. 

More deaths of despair: Death rates are rising for young and middle-aged U.S. adults, and the outcomes for whites, blacks and Hispanics are diverging.   via  

The Amazin' Mets, the Vietnam War and Joni Mitchell. On Day 1 of the Apollo 11 mission, here's what was happening back on Earth. 

Apollo 11. It was a monumental event in human history that rippled through the economy, politics and the lives of the people who made it happen and witnessed it. Our special section explores all this and more.  

 Thanks, Matthew! 😊🎸

“In the Year 2525” has been stuck in my head for months, and now I’m excited to share this creepy, apocalyptic song and get it stuck in your head, too  

"This is shocking." The NYC health dept. found that a third of uncomplicated UTIs caused by E. coli were resistant to one of the most widely used drugs. 

OxyContin made the Sacklers rich. Now it's tearing them apart. “This situation is destroying our work, our friendships, our reputation and our ability to function in society.” great reporting by .  via 

There were once 200 Air Force airmen at a radar site in remote Alaska. Now, there are four civilians with their eyes on Russian bombers.  

"Uh, oh, what did I get into here?" 

Less than 5% of kindergartners in California weren’t fully vaccinated in 2017, down from 9.8% four years earlier, according to a new study, which shows the impact of tighter vaccine requirements and education,  reports 

Tech platforms are tweaking their algorithms and cutting off advertising for pages and videos promoting scientifically dubious and potentially harmful information about cancer treatment  via 

Some patients diagnosed with dry eye after Lasik and other eye surgeries really have unusual and severe nerve damage,  reports.  One form is called corneal neuralgia.

A report concluding that prisoners in China are being killed for their organs has renewed concerns about the origins of some organs used in research. 

huge deal: AbbVie to Buy Allergan for About $63 Billion  via 

At NYU event on measles,  says NYC measles cost as of last week is $ 2M from activation of emergency system. Below, more on that from  . Says final amount spent by city and state “will be pretty remarkable.” 

“I have seen 30-year-olds coming in with heart attacks.” How decades of progress on heart disease have stalled out.  via 

People are more likely to return a lost wallet if there's money inside it than not, surprising pretty much everyone 


This week on the glacier beat: 

A close look at the data from a U.S. program designed to compensate people who have been harmed from vaccines shows how rare injuries have been over the last 30 years 

“Public health is underfunded at all levels, and this $800,00 spent on something completely preventable” said Dr Alan Melnick. My latest for  

The deadly hemorrhagic fever has been spreading for more than 10 months, killing at least 1,411 

The long-running #Ebola outbreak in #Congo has now spilled over to #Uganda, as was long feared, with a 5 year-old confirmed ill.  

More questions about the gene that Chinese scientist He Jiankui tried to edit when he created gene-edited babies.  via 

For the past two decades, a suicide epidemic fueled by guns, poverty and isolation has swept across the West, with middle-aged men dying in record numbers  

U.S. measles outbreaks hit highest level in more than 25 years  via 

$NVS will price its just-approved gene therapy Zolgensma at $2.125 million. Story coming soon on the payment models they're offering to make the price tag more manageable. Here's one I wrote earlier on the challenges.  via 

A very smart piece on #vaccine hesitancy from  and . You should read it! 

The World Health Organization released its first guidelines for reducing risk for dementia, highlighting dementia as a global health priority.  via 

 Thanks, Dr Cornely! 😊

my story about phage therapy today for  — fun fact, one of the phages used to treat the patient was found at my alma mater, PC!  ! #GoFriars 

  I love how you beat me to tweeting this out. I also love the friar fam

Blima Marcus has gathered mothers in living rooms and printed booklets to challenge antivaccination messages. New tactics in the fight against measles  via 

   Thank you!! Means a lot 😊

 Thanks!! 😊

   Thanks, guys!

   Thanks, Shraddha!

 Thanks, Dan!!!

   Thanks, Dr. Breen! Couldn't have done it without my chemistry background

in some ~career~ news, today I accepted a full-time position as a  health reporter 🎉! I am SO excited to continue to work with the amazing  team and can’t wait to get started! I am slightly overwhelmed but very thankful! 

this video of  doing exercises to prevent warbler neck is the highlight of my day and you should watch 

our big takeaway from the #WSJHealthForum yesterday #WSJHealth    

Beyond immunotherapy: Dana-Farber CEO Laurie Glimcher says I/O is big advance but treating 20% of cancer patients, and more approaches are needed like vaccines and drugs targeting tumor 'micro-environment' #WSJHealth

 ANNA WHAT 

Medical writers like me tend to stress the health risks of measles. But infectious diseases are also incredibly expensive and disruptive -- quarantines, kids out sick, parents taking time off from work, crowded ERs, health departments that can't do their other jobs, 

 as a former high school treasurer and someone who deeply cares about Appa the sky bison, I’m now unsure where I fall on this spectrum

The stethoscope is getting an update, now available on IOS and Android #AI   

The world's first malaria vaccine will go to 360,000 African children  

I wrote this article sitting down while on a computer   

Peer-reviewed evidence points to safety concerns about how plastic is manufactured outdoors for in-situ lining and repair of underground pipes. We need solutions to deteriorating sewer and water pipes, but questions surround this widely used practice. My latest for . 

How did Yale scientists restore brain activity hours after death? They pumped pig brains with a special bloodlike fluid via a system they dubbed "BrainEx."    

The number of new U.S. measles cases continued to accelerate last week - now 555 cases in 20 states as of April 11.  via 

 signed

Alexa, what's my blood sugar? Amazon says Alexa is HIPAA compliant. Will consumers use it?  via 

 Thanks!!

 Thank you!! 😸

   Thank you!! 😊😸

  I’m glad! Tell him I say thank you (and that he’s adorable)

 Thank you! Hope all is going great at PC!!

  Thanks, guys! Couldn’t have done it without you!

breaking cat news!!! 

  The original rules of the test still stand. An adorable puppy will not change that

 I KNOW he appreciates your support

Here he is. She is adamant that he gets his day in the sun. Twitter, meet my cat 

My mom was devastated that our own cat, Pistachio, did not get his big break in this piece, but that’s the price of objective, hard-hitting journalism   

It’s only April 2, and we’ve already had more measles cases than in all of last year.  

I grew up skiing in the Elk Valley every weekend. Only recently did I find out that this beautiful valley is struggling with major mine-related pollution. My latest:  via . Thanks to everyone who helped me with this piece

Flu season hasn’t been this bad this late in 20 years  

Adorable baby Grady loves to play with her mom and aunt. She also offers hope for the fertility of young cancer patients 

The thread of journalists co-signing in the replies made me snort out loud. 

so this weekend my roommate and I learned that the neon light from the chicken place across the street makes her walls glow an eerie red when her curtains are open and I just 

You might not want that omelet for brunch. A new study finds a link between eggs and higher risk of heart disease, suggesting dietary guidelines should be revisited,  reports. 

New research on how we order our #memories⏳🧠 could help in understanding &amp; early detection of #Alzheimer’s disease and #dementia.
🖋by  in  with Edvard #Moser , Albert Tsao, James Knierim, , and Mark Howard


In which agriculture and overbites lead to more "f” words. It's science.  via 

Happy  #BrainAwarenessWeek #BrainWeek ! To celebrate, here’s my latest for  

Spotlighting the  project to learn much more about #cancer from 100,000 patients
  by  w/       

The WSJ Health Weekly is out: New treatment for depression, the return of the 'Pharma Bro,' anti-vaccine blowback and more. 

Ketamine "really has opened up a whole new way of thinking about depression." My story w/  about  approval of a ketamine-related drug.  via 

so I’m researching the history of the stethoscope for an article and I think I’ve found a front runner for best paper title ever 

“Having confidential care kind of brings me a sense of peace” — doctors are upping efforts to provide private, preventative care for teens. My latest for   

FDA approves a controversial ketamine-related drug for depression  via  

Finally, a balanced account of the brain sex-differences literature! Can't wait to read the book by  

Follow along our live  coverage of today's Senate Finance Committee hearing on drug prices features some of the world's biggest drug companies.   It is not Ali vs. Frazier but there IS someone named Frazier facing off against Congress 

Scientists have created a synthetic, eight-letter genetic language that seems to store and transcribe information just like natural DNA. 

Stabilizing head mold leads to sharper brain images — 
reports on the latest in #autism research methods.  

Or if you’re just excited that it’s Thursday

Whether you’re celebrating Valentine’s Day or Galentine’s Day (or both), you should read ’s story on green gifts!!  

Maternal mental health becomes a priority, thanks to a new USPSTF recommendation 🎉🤱🏼 my latest for : 

  Congrats!!

Puffy the Atlantic Puffin
Had a very shiny nose
And if you ever saw it under a black light
You would even say it glows

My latest for Audubon: 

The idea that microorganisms in the human gut could influence the brain was often dismissed as wild. Not any more. 

PAT YES PLEASE COME TO NYU WE’LL HAVE A  REUNION 

  Thank you!

Frigid temperatures may be hitting the Midwest this week, but the reason behind the phenomenon, in part, boils down to heat   via 

"The continental United States is 1.8 degrees Fahrenheit warmer than it was a century ago. Seas around the coasts are nine inches higher. Damage is mounting because of these fundamental changes, and Americans are living it." #ActOnClimate 

I wrote about a new, puck-shaped way to transport oil on railways for . Thanks to ,  and  for their help with this piece. 

Reminder that vaccination doesn’t just help you—it helps your entire community! 

The Super Bowl is set: The Los Angeles Rams will face the New England Patriots, who reached the title game for a third straight year 

  Nope, no glasses required!

 Thank you, Ben!

 This counts as investigative reporting, right?

#astronomy twitter, how do you feel about the phrase #SuperBloodWolfMoon? Do you think it’s funny? Does it fill you with rage? Are you indifferent? Either way, I want to talk to you! My DMs are open

I might no longer be able to sneak up on my roof and look at the moon because of the weather on Sunday, but if you can, you should! 

Just a reminder that behind each day's controversies, the biggest story is constantly playing out


It’s been an exciting week at  (where I’m spending the next 10 weeks as an intern 🎉) here’s my second story for the week about how the current flu season is shaping up 

  Thanks, Brian!

Thanks to  and  for their great editing and     for sharing their work!

Using AI to unlock connections in the brain is, well, really cool. It’s also causing researchers to rethink our current diagnostic boundraries for mental illness. My latest for :  #AI #mentalhealth 

 you have no idea how high I can fly

 I’m ready

just found out that my friend just had a cannibalistic bacteria named after her and I have never been so proud

We’re eating later than usual today and my cat is having none of it 

Skidding into the news flow before everyone checks out for the holiday:
New FDA data shows rules to reduce farm antibiotic use are working. But consumer pressure on markets may end up doing more. 

Check out the new piece I wrote from Psychology Today's blog, Brainstorm! 

my latest article about balance and zebrafish brains 🧠 

Look who's graduating (and author-trolling me) tomorrow! Let's congratulate #SHERP 36 anyway:             

How do you design for specifically for people with autism? We asked architects, students, teachers, and clinicians:  

From your social media following to perspectives on healthcare, explore the power of the Pixel in this special 10-part series. 


I went into this article attempting justify my  addiction. Instead, I learned a lot about how medical dramas influence your perception of healthcare 

wow I feel seen 

at this point you can’t convince me otherwise tbh

people who have seen #FantasticBeasts #CrimesOfGrindelwald [spoiler ahead] in that sinking boat scene were they....on the titanic? I am so confused someone please send help

“This EPA press release [full of misinformation about the national climate assessment lifted directly from the daily caller] really is the express train to crazy town," says my fellow Texas climate scientist  

Chronic sleep deprivation could make some people more likely to develop an anxiety disorder 

This is so freaking cool. 

 Thanks! And lol that’s always my dad’s idea when he sees them strut through our backyard

I showed my mom my society for neuroscience water bottle today and she just goes “you mean the society for nerds???” and I think I need an ice pack

 Thanks for all your help with this (and for sharing some great turkey videos)!! 🦃🦃

My passion project ft cannon nets and domineering turkeys that think that you, too, are a turkey 

 Thanks! Writing about the wild turkey uprising has truly been a passion project of mine 🦃

 Thanks girl!

Pumped because  is amazing and this is a great excuse to be lazy about washing dishes 

To avoid putting themselves in unsafe situations, women in New York City are spending up to $1,200 more than men each year on public transportation.



Hey!! I was honorably mentioned for my story on cockroaches for ! :) 

 

One of the coolest, most innovative trends in neuroscience right now is grouping conditions into subgroups based on brain connectivity #SFN18 #SfN2018 🧠 

Well, someone is thrilled to be done with their presentation #Sfn18 

No idea why I thought wearing heels to #SfN18 was a good idea, but it was a successful first day running around San Diego thanks to !!! I’ll wear less aggressive footwear tomorrow 💃🏻🧠👡

    lol oh my gosh that’s nuts! thanks for sharing

 Amazing, will do lol

